Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a horror and thriller
film called “The Belko Experiment."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the busy streets of Bogota, Mike Milch,
an employee of Belko Industries, makes his
way to work after being stopped by a vendor
who sells handmade dolls.
To drive the vendor away, he buys one from
him.
Also on the way, his workmate Barry Norris
arrives at the headquarters of the company
in Bogota, Colombia.
Belko is a nonprofit organization that facilitates
American companies in South America in the
hiring of American workers.
A stricter group of security replaces the
company’s Colombian guards, who conduct
the inspection that day.
The unfamiliar guard asks Barry to hand over
his I.D., to which he abides.
Then the guard checks the trunk of his car
to continue security measures when a local
employee from behind is sent home.
Barry asks about it, but the guard completely
ignores him.
After the strict inspection that morning,
the ones who got through it go about their
workday.
The office is just like any other; employees
are assigned in sections, and the busy hours
start as usual.
A new employee in the company named Dany Wilkins
starts her first day, so Vince, a higher executive,
gives her a brief walk-through of the company.
He also asks Dany if she has been to the doctor
to have a tracker implanted in the base of
her skull.
All employees have trackers placed in their
heads for the higher executives to assure
their safety and monitor them due to the high
number of kidnappings in Colombia.
After their short meeting, Vince officially
welcomes her to the company.
In the office, an employee named Leandra Florez
is constantly harassed by Wendell Dukes, their
workmate, who always makes her uncomfortable.
That day, he stares at her while she works
at her station; she notices him and messages
him to stop staring.
Before her mood worsens, Mike makes her laugh
by showing her the doll he bought earlier
and displaying it on her desk as a gift.
The two are currently in a relationship, as
Leandra is in the process of getting divorced.
Meanwhile, Dany finds extreme pressure in
the company, given that she is a new member.
The supervisor gives her an excessive workload
which shocks her.
After the supervisor leaves, she becomes acquainted
with Roberto and Leota, who have been employees
at Belko.
They also introduce her to Bradley, who is
a good-looking workmate of theirs.
Before entering his office, Mike talks to
Terry, another colleague, who informs him
that the workplace isn’t as packed because
the local workers were sent home.
Weirded by it, Mike notices a guard with heavy
equipment from his office window.
He is curious to find the reason for the security
replacement, so he calls Evan Smith, the head
security guard who also has no idea behind
it.
Out of nowhere, a voice on the intercom asks
all employees to lend him their attention.
The voice announces that there are currently
80 employees inside the building and that
in 8 hours, most of them will be dead.
According to him, their chances of survival
will increase if they follow his orders.
Mixed emotions are felt by people in the office,
as some think it is some prank, and to some,
it is disturbing.
The first task that the voice says is to “murder
any two of your fellow employees within the
next half hour, how they are killed or how
they are chosen to be killed is of no consequence.”
The voice adds that they will face repercussions
if there are no two dead bodies in the next
30 minutes.
As a higher executive, Brent heads to the
control room to check who is responsible for
the announcement but finds that the room is
empty.
In a slight panic, one of the employees says
that all the telephone lines are dead, but
Barry helps the others calm down.
At Mike’s section, he instructs his subordinates
to evacuate the floor calmly, but Keith, one
of the employees, assumes that the announcement
is just a practical company prank.
Mike says that it is possible, but for safety
measures, they should still leave the floor.
As one employee makes her way to the elevator,
Mike tells her to take the stairs instead
because it would be less risky.
A woman in the lobby tries to run outside
of fear, but metal enclosures appear and cover
the whole building.
Sunlight is blocked, and the entire building
turns slightly dim as the employees realize
that something more serious is going on.
Terry tries to contact the police, but the
signal is also cut off, leaving them more
scared.
At the moment, Belko looks more like a prison
than an office building; the once lively working
space has become a secluded and dangerous
place.
All of the employees gather in the lobby,
where Evan is currently receiving all the
complaints and blame, but he repeatedly says
that he is just as clueless as they are.
Two maintenance men, Bud and Lonny, make their
way to the lobby as well, where Mike asks
them if it is possible to cut through the
metal enclosures, to which he replies that
they could give it a try.
Meanwhile, Barry enters the lobby, and in
an attempt to calm everyone down, he says
that the building is safe and that someone
is having fun playing a prank.
Keith and his friends make their way to the
roof to know more about the situation, where
they see Marty and his friends smoking, completely
unbothered by the situation.
The annoyed Leandra warns them about the company
finding out, while Keith realizes that the
building is in the middle of nowhere, surrounded
by greens and animals.
Bud and Lonny try to melt the metal back in
the lobby, but they are unsuccessful at it;
they even have difficulty identifying what
kind of metal it is.
In the corner of the room, Mike expresses
his concerns to Barry and Wendell about the
situation not being a prank but a rather dangerous
one.
According to him, the cell signal, the metal
walls, and the new guards from that morning
are signs that they are being set up.
Barry says that his conspiracy will cause
further panic and continues to dismiss his
thoughts.
On the rooftop, the group spots a guard by
the entrance, and they try to call his attention
to ask for help.
However, the guard is completely unbothered
by their calls for help and continues to sip
his drink in a sinister way.
Marty approaches them to say that they should
chill and relax because it may be a psychological
test conducted by the company.
As he speaks, one of his friends feels a painful
sensation in her head, and in a split second,
her head explodes, causing her instant death.
The sight of it puts everyone in a state of
panic, and Marty realizes that he should be
scared indeed.
In the lobby, another employee explodes before
a man shouts that someone is shooting at them.
All the other unharmed employees take cover
and hide in the rooms after another one explodes.
In an attempt to be safer, some even take
the elevator.
Puzzled by the situation, Barry examines one
of the dead bodies and discovers that bullets
are not the cause of the deaths but an explosion
from inside their heads.
Mike thinks that the trackers implanted in
their heads are explosives that could be used
to control them.
Mike storms to the bathroom to try and cut
his using a box cutter, only for the voice
to speak and command him to stop trying to
take it out, or they will detonate it on their
own.
All bloody, Mike stops at the last second
as Leandra begs him to stop.
Mike’s secretary, Peggy, stitches up his
wounds while Wendell follows Leandra to the
kitchen to annoy her again.
He acts in a predatory manner, which she is
sick of, making her walk away.
While hiding in a room, Terry and another
employee find hidden cameras in the frame
and ceiling, realizing that the ones responsible
for the scheme have been watching them way
before.
A concerned Evan sits by the lobby when Barry
approaches him to hand him a bottle of water.
He tries to talk his way for Evan to hand
him the keys to the armory, where guards keep
their weapons.
Completely aware of his intentions, Evan refuses
to give Barry any authority to enter the armory
despite being his boss.
Meanwhile, Dany hides in the basement when
Bud and Lonny make their way down to further
inspections on how they could control the
power.
The voice communicates again through the intercom,
reminding everyone that the game is serious,
and it is up to them to follow or not, at
the expense of their lives.
It further says that cameras should not be
dismantled, and the trackers should remain
in their heads.
If any of them break the rules, their life
will end abruptly.
Seventy-six employees remain alive at the
moment.
According to the voice, it is demanded that
the employees kill 30 among them within two
hours through any means necessary, or 60 will
be killed.
Everyone is unsafe at the moment, and they
all begin to panic.
In the basement, Lonny sobs out of fear, and
as Bud tries to approach and comfort him,
he pushes him away, thinking that Bud would
hurt him.
He begins to get paranoid as the game progresses,
causing him to doubt his friend.
In the company kitchen, Wendell gathers sharp
weapons, which causes a commotion among the
group.
It pauses when Barry enters the room to try
and control the situation, but they continue
to grab the knife and walk away.
Back in the basement, Lonny is freaking out
as Bud tries to assure him that they will
stick together.
Bud gets too close to him, and Lonny reacts
by hitting Bud in the head with a wrench,
leaving a massive dent in Bud's head as he
dies gradually.
Unknowingly, Dany witnesses the murder of
Bud as Lonny cries beside him out of regret.
Moments later, Lonny notices Dany from a
distance and tries to stop her from telling
anyone, so he grabs her, and in the act of
self-defense, she kicks herself back, which
causes Lonny to hit his head into a metal
bar, killing him.
Dany looks at him in horror but runs away
after realizing what she has done.
Multiple employees argue on which course of
action to take in the cafeteria, causing them
to split into two factions.
One is led by Mike, who thinks that there
should be no killings, and one led by Barry,
who wishes to follow the directions to save
himself from being detonated.
The group consists of him, Terry, and two
other employees: Antonio and Bradley.
The four of them use a blowtorch to burn off
the lock of the armory to have access to weapons
when Mike, Leandra, and Evan find out about
their plan.
They try to stop Barry’s group, but they
are confident of getting a hold of the weapons.
Desperate to put an end to their plan, Evan
takes out a gun and points it at the group,
but he relents and lets them continue.
Mike takes Evan's gun and shoots the blowtorch
tank before he leaves with Leandra and Evan.
It triggers the group to avenge Mike for stopping
their evil plan.
In a tight race with time, Mike’s group
tries to hang banners from the roof to let
people outside know that they are being held
hostage.
However, guards stationed at the entrance
shoot at them mercilessly, but they continue
their attempt.
Keith is hurt in the process as one of the
bullets hits his hand.
The voice demands them to stop hanging up
signs, or their explosives will go off.
Determined to get help, Mike continues to
put another banner, but other employees restrain
him from straying him away from harm.
They eventually give up and go back inside;
Mike tells Leandra that the government might
be behind the killings, but she assures him
that it is not.
While they make their way down, Barry’s
group ambushes the group in the stairway,
pushing Mike and killing Evan, giving them
a chance to take his keys to the armory.
They gather weapons before selecting people
and putting them all in one common area.
The employees hiding in the basement even
get captured by Bradley; he sees Dany hiding
in one corner but lets her stay there out
of sympathy.
She feels relieved more than ever.
Meanwhile, Mike gains consciousness and sees
poor Evan, who has now bled to death.
Just as he gets up, Wendell captures and brings
him to the lobby along with the others.
Barry and his group begin to group people
according to whether or not they have kids
or are over the age of 60.
Everyone fears the situation; Terry tries
to talk to Barry, but he is determined to
kill thirty people as they are down to 20
minutes before the deadline.
He randomly picks people to be executed, and
when one man refuses, Wendell shoots him three
times, causing a big commotion.
The noise from the lobby alarms Dany, urging
her to do something to help her friends upstairs.
She walks along a hallway, where a staircase
leads to the lobby.
After seeing the situation upstairs, she goes
back to the basement, which serves as her
safe space.
Barry chooses Mike to be part of the ones
they would execute; he makes them all kneel
facing the wall as Antonio puts music on the
radio.
He shoots the people one by one as Wendell
keeps track of the number of lives taken.
Just as Mike is about to get shot, Dany shuts
down the power, causing the lights to turn
off.
The employees quickly run for cover as Barry
and his group start firing, killing several
more people.
Inside an elevator, Roberto tries to climb
on the elevator shaft; upon the doors being
opened, he sees Dany alone, so he calls her
for them to team up.
The whole building is in complete chaos, as
everyone is desperate to survive.
For some time, they forget that they are in
a game because their colleagues are hunting
them down.
Bradley gets ganged up by a group of workers
in the basement, while Antonio gets stabbed
by Peggy in a brawl by the staircase.
In a disturbing tone, the voice announces
that only 29 people are killed, which means
that they are short with one life, and in
two minutes, 30 more will die.
Barry and his group scour through the rooms
to kill one more.
Terry looks for someone he could shoot down;
little does he know, Leandra is hiding under
a table.
When he passes by, she uses a knife to cut
his leg, causing him to accidentally let go
of his weapon.
Ready to beat him to death, she stops after
his pleas for her to spare him.
Unfortunately, the voice announces that the
time is over and that 31 employees will now
be eliminated.
To Leandra’s horror, she witnesses Terry
explode while other employees start to die
one by one as well.
Their faces are filled with fear and uncertainty,
as they are left with no choice but to hope
for their safety.
In a control room, a person operates a machine
that controls who gets to live and who dies,
which means that their fate lies in a single
button that has their name.
As people explode, Marty stands still, saying
that everything is just a product of his imagination,
and cries.
After the random selection, the explosions
stop, and the voice continues to let the surviving
players know that the last stage of the game
will start.
Whoever has killed the most people will be
allowed to live; the tally is announced: Barry
with 11 kills, Wendell with seven kills, Vince
and Dany with one kill each.
With this, Barry’s group continues to hunt
down employees and start killing them off.
Barry’s secretary tries to seduce him in
the lobby just so she could be saved, but
instead of comforting her, Barry breaks her
neck instead after saying that he would not
waste a bullet on her.
He then enters the elevator, where Dany and
Roberto are hiding.
After noticing their voices, he shoots in
their direction but misses.
Barry presses a button to go to the top floor;
Dany manages to jump out of the shaft, but
the poor Roberto gets left behind and is crushed
to death in his attempt to escape.
This causes the elevator to shut down, which
entraps Barry inside.
Leandra finds collecting the un-exploded trackers
from the heads of people who have died by
other methods.
They tell her that they plan to use them to
blow up the wall, which she thinks is a good
idea.
She uses another intercom to let Mike, who
is hiding in a locked office, know that she
needs him and that she is on the first floor.
Mike decides to come to Leandra’s rescue;
as he comes downstairs, he finds Liezl, a
cafeteria lady, and brings her with him.
Moments after, Leandra finds Wendell butchering
an employee, which triggers her to kill him
after months of him harassing her in the office.
Unfortunately, Marty and his friend get shot
after trying to help Leandra reach Wendell.
She manages to grab the ax and kill him brutally,
leaving the final six survivors: Vince, Mike,
Barry, Dany, Leandra, and Liezl.
When Leandra and Mike reunite, she shows him
the explosives that Marty has collected, but
out of nowhere, Liezl gets burned to death
after Vince throws a bottle of lit gasoline
on her.
The two run away after being chased by two
men, but in the process, Leandra gets shot.
Barry shoots Vince and Dany, who just got
out of the elevator shaft, to keep up with
his tally.
With her dying breath, Leandra proclaims her
love to Mike after he brings her to an empty
room.
She falls unconscious, which causes Mike to
be in a fit of rage.
He starts a brutal fight with Barry, in which
Barry gets the better of him at first.
After some time, Mike fends Barry off using
a tape dispenser, which ends in Mike bludgeoning
Barry to an awful death.
He looks at him with hate and lands his final
hits, making him the sole survivor.
The voice announces him as the winner, and
two guards bring him out after they unseal
the building.
Mike’s body is about to give up on him,
but the two guards force him to enter a hangar
next to the building.
In there, he comes face to face with the owner
of the voice, who says that they're part of
an international organization that studies
human behavior unfettered by conventional
concepts.
As he and his colleagues begin to interview
Mike about his emotional and mental state
after the experiment, Mike notices a panel
of switches corresponding to the eighty employees.
He then reveals to the voice that he planted
the trackers that Marty collected on the guards
and the owner of the voice, which means that
they could explode.
Quickly, Mike runs to flips every remaining
active switch except his own, making the trackers
explode.
The guards get killed, and the owner of the
voice gets wounded before Mike grabs a gun
and kills the remaining scientists.
The owner of the voice attempts to appeal
to his moral beliefs, but Mike kills him out
of anger.
In a state of shock, he leaves the hangar,
slightly relieved.
Suddenly, multiple monitors reveal that the
experiment is conducted in various buildings,
showing that Mike is just one of many sole
survivors from similar experiments, being
watched by another group.
All of a sudden, another voice announces:
“End stage one.
Commence stage two.”
The experiment is far from over, and what
seemed to be the worst is only the beginning
of something more vile and evil.